everyone it's me again Laszlo Montgomery
bringing you the final episode in our
rambling ten part history of tea series
welcome back all you Stahl words who
have stuck with this since part one I
hope over the past nine episodes you
found something worthwhile in this China
history podcast effort to introduce the
history of tea with the disclaimer of
course that this is the Chinese version
tea history and stories of tea culture
are present in all countries where tea
is drunk sorry I couldn't get to any of
them I'll try and tie up some loose ends
and if I should come across any orphans
of information that I neglected to put
in the other nine episodes will place
them in this part 10 of the series first
off from last episode when I discussed
pool RT I may not have been telling the
whole truth and nothing but the truth as
far as how close to the Qingming
festival these leaves needed to be
picked actually someone who knows better
and there are a lot of these people
around the world they can tell actually
and it's been said those leaves picked
and processed into poo RT right after
the Ching Ming period April 4 5 6 ish
will offer up a kind of specialness you
can't get elsewhere also I may not have
accentuated the differences that exist
between the ripe Xu who are tea aged
naturally over decades and the ripe pool
RT that used the wool to a process
developed in Yunnan this process
developed in the 1970s lit a fire under
the aging process and speeded things up
so I just wanted to mention that amongst
the cognoscenti who know their pool RT
there's a world of difference so that's
that I thought in this episode we could
travel from province to province and
China and look at some of the more
famous teas that you're apt to find in
your typical tea shop or online store
the most famous teas are more often than
not
former tribute teas from the Ching
dynasty the ability to get your hands on
tea and to and
it sure has come a long way since the
treacherous times of the tea horse road
and the days of the China Clippers of
the 1850s and 60s people had to go to a
lot of trouble to get this stuff from
China to their teapot in our time we go
online and in five minutes place an
order for any number of magnificent teas
from reputable online firms and have
them delivered right to our door think
of that as you peruse some of these
websites man we got it easy in our time
the earliest Chinese and indigenous
people who populated the lands where the
original tea gardens sprang forth all
quickly figured out tea trees thrived
best and warm damp shady places and that
altitude and acidity of the soil seemed
to have a lot to do with the outcome of
the tea over the dynasties starting in
the Qin tea cultivation began to spread
from the source and your nan citron and
cuejoe to all over China wherever the
climate soil topography and growing
conditions permitted let's talk a little
about green tea first that's where most
of the action is in the China market but
70% of all the tea produced in China is
green judge Yong Yong Chi and onwe are
the three provinces most renowned for
green tea you'll notice when you line up
a couple dozen or so different green
teas from all over China you'll see they
all look different from each other
different size color shape leaf length
some are just buds
some a button a leaf or a bud and two
leaves or leaves without bud some are
twisted some are straight some are
curved and Crescent shapes over time the
more you study t the more you'll notice
famous teas always have something about
them that makes the leaves instantly
identifiable one thing that's confusing
about these top-drawer teas is that even
within a single kind of tea there are
multiple grades
how I explained in the tribute tea
system that ran from tonk to Ching the
most prized of all tees were those
picked before the Ching Ming festival
before the rains you could buy this
primo gray tee as well whenever it hits
the market in May or June the Chinese
always knew about these first flushes
picked before the spring rains that
yielded the best teas the European soon
learned as well who remember the great
19th century tea clipper races that
happened
these vessels would race from Phu Joe to
England as soon as the first tees were
loaded on board and off they'd go if you
were the first to slide into that
parking space at Port your firm could
fetch a gorgeous premium for every ounce
of tea in your cargo hold today to
everyone who knows tea knows this grade
of tea is something special there are
other grades besides this first flush so
ordering artisanal holy tea online is a
very three-dimensional task the best
thing to do is stick with the most
reputable online tea shops until you're
ready to wander off and try out other
places like with pearls Jade and silk
it's easy to get ripped off and buying
premium grade teas the tea forums and
blogs are most informative and the
pointers they offer where to get the
good stuff I subscribe to the tea
subreddit and find that quite useful
back to green tea long Jane tea I'll go
out on a limb and say it's perhaps the
most famous green tea in China Dragon
Well tea it's called comes from a place
called Wong Jing village not too far
from West Lake and beautiful hung Joe I
think this year 2015 mr. Jack Ma and
Alibaba might have eclipsed Westlake as
hyung Joe's most famous symbol I've been
a long jing village and what is there to
say except it is picturesque there are
about five districts in the area that
produce authentic long-chain what's so
great about this tea
these lucky tea farmers there had gained
sufficient repute in the region to the
extent that one day they were visited by
the Qianlong Emperor and that great tea
drinking Emperor grandson of another
great tea drinking Emperor himself
planted eighteen tea bushes there and
even picked some of the teeth himself so
that's a heck of a story to have
associated with your town if an emperor
so versed in tea proclaimed your
products superior and wrote a poem about
how good it was to boot your share price
skyrocketed fame and fortune were yours
to lose I mean come on a chin long
emperor Chinese history he's pretty big
about those eighteen trees there's
another story this one I don't know but
I'll tell it anyway remember back in
those Ching dynasty overview episodes I
mentioned how the chin long emperor was
extremely devoted to his mother it was
when he was down in hangzhou visiting
longcheng village and picking tea that
he learned that his mother was ailing
back in the palace so he cut short the
tour and he hurried back north to be
with her and in the excitement of the
moment the emperor carelessly had
stashed some Long Jing tea leaves inside
his royal sleeve when he got back to the
palace
well you know what happened next he
discovers them prepares them for his
sick mother and you guessed it her
recovery was miraculous to honor this
tea and those who grew it
he ordered these 18 trees to be planted
there in a special part of the village
by whole Gong temple and he stipulated
that these trees should henceforth
supply the palace with long Jing Dragon
well tea today if you want to buy any of
this tea off those 18 trees it'll run
you about 25 grand us for a quarter
ounce or 100 grams the tell-tale sign or
calling card of Long Jing tea is its
shape the leaves beautiful especially
when you get a nice classic full bud set
they're pressed flat as if pressed
between the pages of a book and when you
infuse the tea you're really going to
want to have
Claire glas.t service because the Dragon
Well tea leaves open up real nicely and
are comforting and pleasurable to groove
on when you're enjoying your Long Jing
moment the legend goes the leaves are
all flat because on the ride back to
Beijing the chin long ever had
inadvertently pressed the leaves he had
stashed in his sleeves for most of the
ride back so they ended up in that
condition hey who knows you have to be a
little vigilant when you brew Long Jing
tea my suggestion if you want the
perfect cup there's to go watch a video
on youtube or yoku and there are scores
to choose from showing the best way to
make Long Jing tea by all means you
don't want to scald
those tea leaves green teas don't
require fully boiled hot water Long Jing
tea like any of the greats
is really something else when brewed at
optimum conditions
one more thing because if it's
popularity and all the legends and
stories associated with it
Long Jing is often imitated and faux
Long Jing is readily available in the
market
it looks like Long Jing but it isn't and
most people like me don't know any
better just by looking fo Long Jing can
be had and your nan gray Jo and a lot of
it comes from su chuan and Guangdong
grows this - it's just process like Long
Jing and sold with a long chain label as
I said most of the unsuspecting won't
know any difference another thing I
heard when I was in search one was that
a lot of Sichuan tea gets shipped to Jo
Geon word is then processed into this
faux Long Jing just know that many of
these top-grade famous teas and China
not just lounging command a high market
price so naturally you get all these
Shan Zhai teas counterfeit look-alikes
you'll hear the word mao-chan and
malfunction or malfunctions a bud
a single leaf only malfunctions and for
each individual kind of tea the buds the
leaves should all pretty much look the
same and be uniform in its appearance
and if it's a Mountie they're better
only be one lathe and a bud and no stems
let's look at gunpowder teen next also
from judge young province another green
tea that is somewhat well-known in the
Western world because of the name it's
processed in such a way that the leaves
are rolled into these little balls or
pellets for this reason the Chinese call
this tea Georgia drool means pearl
because it is rolled by hand the leaves
have to be a little bigger than what you
might pick at the spring the leaves
picked in the summer and autumn being
larger in size work best for this tea
nowadays only the highest end gunpowder
teas are rolled by hand there are
machines that could mimic this hand
process pretty well and this is how most
commodity gunpowder tea is made the
smaller the pellet the higher the grade
the smaller the pellet the harder it was
to roll it to the smallest sized pellets
of gunpowder tea are known as Imperial
pinhead gunpowder tea there are a lot of
grades of this tea traditionally this
tea comes from ping shui south of
shaoxing for this tea as with most
grains keep the water at 80 to 85
degrees Celsius 175 to 185 Fahrenheit
one thing famous about this gunpowder
tea is that this is the base tea used
for the famous and totally refreshing
Moroccan mint tea this is a nice easy T
to start with you're just beginning to
explore green tea and another thing just
like with long chain dragon well tea
baby get yourself a nice clear glass tea
cup and watch those pellets unfurl as
they steep away and all their glory
gunpowder tea like Bo hey heissen Congo
is another one of the great historic
teas of the 19th century
for all these teas I've mentioned and
will mention again I wanted to throw a
few names at you these virtual team
enters of mine are all based here in the
land of the free my home turf so to
speak their books their videos will
teach you the whole thing from beginning
to end how hot the water should be how
much tea to add how long to steep the
whole ball of wax let me mention a few
names mr. James Norwood Pratt Mary Lou
and Robert J hice Steven Oh young
Android Phong moving right along another
famous green tea huang shan malfunction
or its one has a bud and the two top
leaves next to the bud the classic tea
bud said the historic granite peaks of
wan shan well that says right away on
kwai province there are about sixty
thousand steps carved into huang shan
that lead you all throughout the most
scenic parts of yellow mountain as it's
called in english walking around there
is like being in a chinese painting like
with many of China's most sacred
mountains if the climate is right for
tea tea has grown there of all the
provinces in China no one has more
varieties of tea than on clay this tea
quanzhen malfunctions like with Longjing
there are multiple grades sold at
different prices and copious amounts of
counterfeits I have a listener Scheldt
saw who writes to me occasionally he
hails from luan in on way and is now in
the wedding dress business down his
Soochow prior to hearing from shall Tao
have to be honest I had never heard of
Liu on as the locals pronounce it luan
actually should be pronounced lil on
because the character for Liu is the
character lil for the number-6 so that
city has that that thing about it you
don't see many Chinese cities that have
official names that stray too far from
the official opinion of the Chinese
characters Liu
is an exception so it's from shouts how
that I learned about luan city and also
their famous luan gwap in green tea luan
guac in also goes by the name melon seed
tea the guava pian means melon seed this
is one of those teas that has a distinct
look about it and when the leaves open
up they have the uniform appearance of
melon seeds I had some with Clement last
time when we did our little tea
excursion to the Shanghai Papa Tong Tian
Shan cha Chun one of these retail malls
that are filled exclusively with tea
vendors now that's a place to spend an
afternoon this is a little slice of tea
culture if there ever was one
I guess you could find them here in the
US and one Chinatown or another I'm not
sure if I ever saw one here there are
these multi-level structures maybe two
three four stories high and the whole
place from top to bottom and all
throughout are filled with people in the
tea business whatever you might ever
need from tea tea we're utensils you
name it if you can't find it in one of
these places it doesn't exist in San
Francisco Chinatown
there are tea shops that offer a couple
hundred kinds of teas you could sit
there and sample some of them out
I spent a nice enjoyable hour at vital
tea leaf on Grant Street these kinds of
places are great for sampling teas you
can buy whatever you like if you're
shopping for loose tea you'll find most
of these shops in these various
chou-heung all have specialization for
example one store will specialize in yen
cha you know rock tea from northern
Fujian some only deal in pool art I went
to a place it was a guy from Hunan and
he mostly carried the specialty of his
province XI yang mau chen this green tea
has grown near the southern tip of her
nan about three hour ride north of luan
across the on play for the non-border I
sat at this guy's shop and he made us
both a pot of luan guavian and also his
personal pride she young mouch in this
mouch ENT tells you it's quite delicate
just one bud and one leaf shinyoung
mochi and also goes by the name fur tip
ma meaning hair or fur Jen meaning tip
this is the Jen character used in Jim
saw Joe and Kowloon if you're wondering
how they grow tea all the way up there
and Hunan province so was i if you look
at a map of China for the nan province a
sort of north central far north of the
answer well this Xin yang mau G&T one of
the ten most famous in China is the most
northerly spot in China where tea is
grown this is about this is about as far
north as you could possibly go in China
and still cultivate good tea Shinyoung
is 1500 miles north of XI chuan Bana in
Yunnan we're optimal tea growing
conditions are said to be so this among
other things as Xin yang mal chin T's
claim to fame about an 8 to 10 hour car
ride due west of Shenyang in the
farthest south east corner of Shaanxi
province lies the city of uncon China's
land of folk songs not a very well known
place I know their history goes all the
way back to the Western Jin T is grown
in nine counties of Shaanxi province and
the superstar of this province is there
zhu li yang mau chen from xue young
County near uncon the good people there
who make this tea boast that it is
particularly high in selenium
this is something we all need in trace
amounts to manufacture antioxidant
compounds in our bodies to help with
cellular function selenium or she as
it's called and Mandarin also aids our
immune system haven't been offering you
my worthless comments on how each tea
tastes I'm letting you know about the
existence of these teas their place in
Chinese history and best of all to let
you know that they are affordable and
easily obtainable
little sample sizes up to 15 grams to as
much as you want or as much as what's
available in the market another
well-known on Quay green tea is called
typing whole Quay another entry in
China's top 10 this comes from about
five hours north of function each great
and famous tea usually has a story
associated with it this one says that
the Hulk way or Monkey King perished at
this spot near typing lake and on way
and a farmer came upon the Fallen Monkey
King and buried him then the monkey
Kings spirit in appreciation of the
farmer allowed for these tea trees to
spring forth from where he had buried
the body
this farmer reverently harvested and
processed the leaves in a special and
unique way and the acclaim for his tea
reached all the way to the Imperial
Palace in Beijing and although this
farmer never lived to see it his tea won
the grand prize at the World Expo in
Panama in 1915 when they opened the
canal this is a very rural part of Okwe
we're typing hole quake comes from there
are about three villages that make this
stuff real true blue typing hole quay
with its larger-than-average leaves is
not easy to get when it's available
online it sells out fast this particular
tea gets its appearance in the way it's
specially processed these leaves come
out looking nice and flat and slightly
embossed from the special leaves of
paper or screens they are pressed
between to air out this is an all hand
operation 85 to 90 degrees Celsius tops
and again keep that clear teacup handy
because these long leaves when they
unfurl and stand up straight at the
bottom of your cup are really a sight to
enjoy and meditate to the live Mir Putin
is said to be a fan of typing Hoch way
what will all this tea cost you I'm
gonna share all the links I could find
on the world
wide web about online teashops and other
tea resources that you might find useful
let's look at Long Jing first I see a
2014 harvest Imperial launching going
for forty dollars and sixty cents an
ounce superior dragon well which is a
lesser great version of the former I
just mentioned goes for 11 and a quarter
notes can you taste the difference
the experts can your humble narrator I
regret cannot Xin young mochi anthem
hone on I saw two and a half ounces for
ten dollars and forty-five cents new on
Gua pian I saw for four ounces enough
for 25 to 30 cups of tea heaven for
$18.95 60 to 70 cents a cup come on and
this is one of the more pricey teas I
saw a place selling 50 gram tins of
green tea 16 dollars for Long Jing $19
for Wang Shan malfunctions okay and 18
dollars for luan gwacheon melon seed tea
so as you can see when you sort
everything out like I tried to do the
pricing out and the market is all over
the place but one thing rings true the
good stuff is costly and if you're not
gonna go out of your way to use good
water and brew it in a nice cattle you
may as well not buy the best grades you
could try any of these and most of the
online tea retailers will carry these
greens if you have a tea shop close by
they for sure will have all of these
let's touch on white tea again I
mentioned in part 4 about white tea and
how hot it was these days as I said
Fujian province is the home of authentic
white tea they make it in India now and
elsewhere but the signature most famous
China white teas would be by Mouton or
white peony and by how eun-jung Silver
Needle tea Silver Needle tea is
considered the first white tea it came
out in the late Qing Dynasty white peony
is probably more widespread it was
created after the fall of the Qing as an
forty the pricing on white tees is
similar to green not going to break the
bank if you're drinking tea for the
canons white tees being the least
processed with little or no oxidation
offers you the highest catagen
antioxidant count in general the darker
the tea the lower the antioxidant count
who longs there's so many to choose from
who long tea comes from Taiwan and
Fujian in Fujian the rock teas the Yin
jaw of we shun we're so much tea history
happened are quite popular with the
experts and amateurs like me too then in
the south of Fujian you have to
tieguanyin
of unchi then south of there you get
into Guangdong province where they make
tons home tea I had some of this at an
ice tea tasting afternoon at a friend's
shop and Chengdu it's not a yin cha a
rock tea but it's a nice long and the
most famous long coming from Guangdong
province Don's home comes from a place
called Phoenix Mountain just north of
historic Chao Chao and Chantal
come to think of it I believe in all of
Guangdong this is that provinces most
famous tea eight ounces will run you
about 34 bucks if they have it in stock
a very beloved long tieguanyin comes
from both Fujian and Taiwan it's English
name is usually iron Buddha tea guanine
of course the beloved goddess of mercy a
lot of people pray to her the story goes
it's called Tia Guan Yi because the tea
is black like iron Tia and pure and
beautiful like one Yin another story
goes that in shy Shen
outside the city of San Ming at foo gen
there was this old Buddhist temple with
an iron statue of Guan Yin inside the
temple was all rundown and everyone in
sha Shan was so poor no one could afford
to rebuild it but one of the locals went
in twice a month to help clean it up and
would burn incense to the goddess one
night the goddess guanine appeared to
him in a dream and told
to look inside this cave near the temple
to seek a treasure that she had placed
there he woke up and went to go search
the cave in it he found a single tea
chute which he planted and took care of
for a few years when his bush was mature
enough to yield its riches
the man discovered a fantastic brew
cuttings were taken from this bush and
was planted all around the area
including unchi just a few hours away by
car within a generation
everyone in this region of Fujin
prospered from growing this tick
one-inch high as it became known one
thing about most alongs
you really get a lot of bang for your
buck this varies a great deal depending
on multiple factors but generally
speaking you'll get two to three brews
out of a serving of most green and white
teas and that third steeping is gonna be
very light but with Long's you could get
as many as six to seven brews before
they start to lose their distinctive
flavor
gin gin matey golden beautiful eyebrow
this is a very popular tea these days
it's a rock tea from Tom village Louie
Mountain only the gateau the buds are
used for this tea the buds are then
fully oxidized which technically makes
this a black tea rather than an oolong
this is Bud only tea will set you back
twelve to seven hundred bucks an ounce
if that gives you any idea how much
depth of quality there is and this and
many other artists and teas of this
region there's ginger and Mae and
there's ginger and may I randomly
checked a good tea website may had real
gin gin may for 35 bucks for four ounces
875 an ounce
the other more famous of the yin cha
rock T's of we mountain are roadway da
Hong Pao TLO Han and one of my personal
faves Shui Shen
there's also shui Cinque by g'quan and
those were all I know a lot of tea
lovers swear
by these Rock tees of the woody mountain
area again having tried a few myself I
concur with this thinking like all these
tees I've mentioned they're all
affordable and not gonna set you back
too much if you want to figure the cost
on a per cup basis compared to coffee
it's a bargain especially if you get
more than one single steeping I
mentioned that home pong great Red Rover
big red robe tea now this one has a
story or two attached to it now home
Paul is almost an across-the-board
favorite among tea people the world over
a very renowned tea I love this stuff in
fact I just yesterday finished up the
last of my supply the history of the
home powell goes all the way back to the
song but it achieved particular favor
the ming dynasty so many legends with
this tea where to begin the most famous
story says there was this poor scholar
on his way to the imperial palace to sit
for the civil service exams he got sick
along the way in the mountain area and
chanced upon a monk who took him in and
nourished him at the monastery with this
tea their local brew the scholar was
able to recover and then made his way to
the palace where legend has it he scored
the highest of all the participants at
the same time the scholar was present in
the capital the mother of one of the
Ming Emperor's was ailing and not
expected to make it luckily this scholar
still had some of his tea that the monks
had given him the emperor's mother was
given some of this tea and wouldn't you
know it she recovered from her illness
and so the ampar ER in gratitude for
what this tea had done for his beloved
mother sent a red robe to the monastery
and appreciation to cover these three
bushes another version says the scholar
in appreciation for the way the monks
took care of him and for facilitating
all his success in the Imperial exams
presented his red scholars robes to them
to be placed on the three tea bushes
there's many other stories all quite
hard to believe but they all go
something like this and end with a big
red robe being offered to this great
ninja this rock tea I didn't get into
too much detail about Taiwan's great
teas I mentioned in part 6 about John
Dodd and Lee chuan zhang playing key
roles in the 1860s in developing
taiwan's tea export industry taiwan is
famous for alongs although black and
green teas are also grown there but it's
Taiwan's alongs that win all the prizes
and are considered among the best and we
could thank Taiwan for giving us bubble
tea aka boba tea let's look at a few
more provinces and their famous teas
cuejoe
I didn't talk too much about quiet
little cuejoe
is today the second largest tea
producing Province in China and as far
as green tea production they're number
one they're famous for their do your
mouth yet which comes from Doolin about
two hours by car west of the capital
Kwai on Maui Jim again we all know now
simply means there's a bud and a single
leaf this green tea is not gonna set you
back a lot of money among the stories do
you know chin has to tell
besides being kwai Joe's most famous tea
is that supposedly it was named by the
great helmsman himself
Chairman Mao as a story goes prior to
being called do-hyun mouch Yin it was
known as you go cha fishhook tea because
of the hooked shape of the dried leaves
well they gave some tomorrow as a gift
and he renamed Hugo cha is julienne
malchyonka the locals will tell among
its characteristics are the three
yellows the San Juan which are the
leaves the tea liquor and the taste that
they describe as yellow grade Joe's
other famous teas are great ding
hyun-woo and may jump to a pet all
greens let's look at one of way chose
next-door neighbors guanxi is famous for
their leo bow black tea actually leo bow
is closer to
our than black tea because they do a
kind of walkway post fermentation
process Leo Bao is in the eastern part
of guanxi near the border with Guangdong
it's a small Township very remote and
not that easy to get to
they make this specialty up there in yo
Bao but demand far exceeds what they can
produce so Leo Bhatia is sort of a type
that is produced in many of the
surrounding areas of Leo ba Chinese who
work the tin mines in Malaysia 1890s and
into the 20th century will remember this
tea that was shipped in big quantities
to the workers there
Leo Bo like every tea I mentioned has
multiple grades so you get what you pay
for
remember last episode when I discussed
PO RT I mentioned they discovered this
walkway process in the 1970s and it
revolutionized the pool our tea industry
it said that the good people in Yunnan
learned this walkway process from the
tea masters up in leopa if you want to
get the full lil bow cultural experience
don't go to Guang XI the word on the
street does that Malaysia is the place
where this type of tea is particularly
popular and still widespread maybe six
hours away by car from Leo ball to the
west about halfway to nan Ning is the
city of great ping they make great ping
Shi Shanti there this is a green tea of
guanxi these are probably the two best
known guanxi teas su chuan the
birthplace of cultivated tea remember
the GaN lose story the monk who Li Jun
who planted the 70 plants on monk Dean
Sean su chuan is famous for greens black
sand for all those tea bricks or bian
cha that we spoke about in the earlier
episodes this tea series it's also
famous for tea culture when I was out
there and checking out the tea seen up
close for the first time someone took me
to red bean go Muirhead People's Park I
opted out of having my ears claimed but
I did have an eye
Chung's way who experience I didn't
mention the chant Rahul this is one of
my favorite little slivers of Chinese
tea culture it originated somewhere in
the eastern part of su chuan towards the
end of the Ching beginning of the
Republican era I don't know if you've
ever seen one of them before the ones
I've seen we're all made of copper the
defining characteristic of this teapot
is its long spouts about 33 inches 85
centimeters long I read one of the
purposes of this long spot was to offer
the tea a chance to cool as it made its
way out of the other end and into the
customers teacup the cool thing about
this whole art is that there are about
18 popular kungfu poses that the one
performing will use when they pour the
tea and dramatically behind their back
over their head
twisting sideways and each time they
would refill your tea cup as they were
doing any one of these different kungfu
poses and you'll see they will pour that
tea out that 33 inch spout right into
your little tea cup on the table and
nary a drop is spilled I'm a sucker for
that every time first time I saw that
was in 1990 Beijing at a citron
restaurant just blew me away
and Here I am a quarter century later
still talking about it su chuan is sort
of a general term for the province
Chongqing does it this way and in
Chengdu they do it that way some parts
of su chuan are all minority people it's
a huge province used to be over a
hundred and twenty million people living
there until Chongqing was split away and
made a municipality in 1997 reporting
direct to Beijing there are still 80
million people living in su chuan
province that's about a quarter of the
entire US population frankly not until I
began to seriously study tea that I ever
look upon su chuan as much of a tea
place so bright does the tea light shine
and Georgia
fujian onwe and taiwan citron and these
days may be an afterthought in parts one
two and three
you were able to see how critical citron
was and taking the initial baby steps to
establish the art of tea in China it all
began in such one in the first episode I
called su chuan the year-end ho The
Fountainhead for tea in China
and therefore the world the center of
the chammak Udo the ancient tea horse
rode was in Sichuan province the
contribution of swans tea farmers and
tea artisans especially in the early
days was so critical to the evolution of
tea those tea masters in su chuan would
patiently season after season gradually
turn that bitter to and to sweet cha
fortunately the Yangtze River ran right
through this breadbasket of China and
eastward along the Yangtze River Valley
this expert knowledge flowed the most
famous teas of Sichuan all come out of
the Hmong ding Shan area Hmong ding
Xiang yah is a rare yellow tea mount
Hmong ding snow buds Xiaoyu means snow
bud I didn't talk too much about the
yellow tea category the other better
known Sichuan teas are gone Lu julia
ching ching chong shadows snow bud Oh
Michonne malfunction byah byah means
white bud Oh Michonne mount ma is one of
the four sacred mountains of Buddhism
tea has grown there all of these teas
from su chuan can be purchased online
one of the most popular of the great and
famous teas of China is bee law hood
from Jiangsu province I'd say that it'd
have to be their entry for best-known
t-b law hood translates to green snail
spring it's one of those gorgeous little
bud set teas and are all tiny and curly
it's green tea runs you about
ten bucks an ounce for a halfway decent
grade
this one's maybe a little more expensive
than your average artisan green teas but
not by much and again on a per cup basis
it's still cheaper than coffee by a mile
it said that the comes she Emperor
himself named this tea
don't go carve this on your wall or
anything but Long Jing LuAnn Gua pian
and be law puddin are considered the
three top of the pops as far as China
green teas go I would say go find your
own top three gem she province doesn't
get the respect it deserves I mentioned
in part two that early records indicated
a central tea market in China that was
located in gem she so not only is this
province a tea producer it was also a
key player in the development of tea
Commerce in China from the earliest
times Jang Shi is Best in Show is
probably mean may this tea has grown in
Warren County just east of Jing DeJohn
and just south of huangshan yellow
mountain this is northern most jiangshi
province this is another one of those
matey's may means eyebrow teas that have
that slender delicate arch to the dried
leave are often called something or
other may tea from this part of jiangshi
and warren county had been enjoyed by
all the royals and the imperial palace
since the time of the song this one goes
way back even lu you praise this tea hey
and remember typing hole quay won that
award at the 1915 world expo in Panama
oh you had me matey won a gold medal
there also I don't know perhaps it was
one of those things where everyone got
an award War II and was once crowned the
most beautiful village in China I'll
have you know the other big TN gem she
is Lou Chadron wolf Lou Jean cloud and
mist Lucia of course one of the most
historic cities in PRC and Communist
Party history this tea comes from Jo
Jung on the western side of Lake Boyan
Lucian
has been a tribute tea since the time of
the song Jude himself after tasting this
famous tea of Jiang Shi Province was
inspired to write a poem
lcia young Mucha weighed Nome King Palo
raw the chung chien yin yin Yaffa the
flavor of Lu Xiang Yu mu T is strong and
intense if you drink it for long it is a
way to attain longevity judo ladies and
gentlemen founder of the Red Army lived
to the age of 89 I still haven't
mentioned whole Bay and Hoonah plenty of
tea has grown there too in between each
Aang and Jimin in whole bay is the
county of yin on this is where who pays
famous yellow tea
illusion is grown the other famous and
quite ancient tea of Hebei this one goes
all the way back to the Tong is unsure
you look this one comes from south of
each hung at the bottom of Hebei and the
Hunan border unsure you loo is special
because not only is it incredibly old
but they use a steaming method to
process the tea that stopped being used
after the Tong dynasty
now don't let la Isla Montgomery fool
you I've never tried either of them but
you could buy them on the internet and
some of the web stores that sell tea
Hunan is the home of the very special
Jin Shan Yong Chun Chairman Mao like
this one it's another yellow tea and as
yellows go this one is considered the
top one very similar to by Hagen Chun
tea one of the best known white teas
from the province that brought us white
tea Fuu Jin Yong Jun again means silver
needle that means it's an all bud tea
Jin Shan eunjin is one of the top 10
famous teas of China I think there may
be more than ten teas that are claiming
to be in the top ten
it's growing on Jin Shan Island located
in beautiful
don't hang Lake don't think hole I don't
know if everyone knows this the name for
the provinces who obey a Hunan means
north of Lake and south of the lake who
means lake bay means North nan is
so who pay means north of the lake and
the lake they mean is dong ting lake so
Hunan is basically south of the lake
although technically speaking daunting
who is located inside who none the
annual production of Jin Shan engine is
only about 500 kilos a year as far as
this tribute teased history it goes back
to the song I've seen it for 25 bucks
for a hundred grams rare as it may be
it's still affordable I think I covered
most of the Marquis T's of China in this
series I skipped over a thousand or so
and I hope you won't hold that against
me I have a bunch of other tea related
things I wanted to include but since
we're already running long and I promise
not to force you to listen to a part 11
I'm going to 86 those ideas I was going
to talk about the tea industry today in
2014-2015 and look at some numbers and
brands and trends is a sort of a way to
see how far tea has come since the days
of the BAS rule people of ancient su
chuan province there were a few other
things too but we'll leave it at this if
you didn't know anything about the
history of tea before you started
streaming part one then first sure you
have tons of material for the next
cocktail party or mixer I went more than
a half a century before I was seriously
turning down to tea and after more than
a solid year testing the waters
I'm all settled in honestly I'm not much
of a wine drinker
even to say I'm not much of a wine
drinker is an overstatement all these
years I saw with how much passion so
many people spoke of wine and of their
wine experiences I could never be part
of that but now with tea I found it's
exactly the same in one year into
discovering the world of tea I'm only
just getting started and as far as the
history of tea goes I hope you're
leaving the table fully satisfied it
really is a great story especially in
the context of that most famous
statement about tea that after water and
air it's the most consumed
substance on the planet that contacts
the story is particularly poignant if it
were so easy to figure out the process
then there wouldn't be anything special
about t it be like orange juice pick the
orange squeeze it into a glass with
camellia sinensis it wasn't so evident
it took a few thousand years to figure
out most of the secrets locked inside
but you have to hand it to human beings
they sure are good at figuring things
out
yeah the first Neolithic or Bronze Age
people who lived where tea trees grew
wild all knew these leaves were special
thankfully China had a nice long history
and amidst all the wars disunity famines
plagues rebellions changes in dynasties
despite all that basically the culture
always kept chugging along always moving
forward and T was part of that we saw in
these episodes how it really took a
while before T or too evolved from this
bitter brew into the cha beloved of
poets from Sh unknown to tongue-tied
zone was three thousand three hundred
and sixty years that means it went from
some legend of raw tea leaves purging
poisons from shun gnomes body into a
beverage that was so good
Emperor's demanded that the best of
every kind there was be sent to them
first
it took 33.6 centuries to go from
shandong to lu u and another seven
hundred years to get from Lu you to the
rock teas of lewisham it wasn't easy and
all the secrets took their time before
they were discovered my hope these past
10 episodes was that I can offer you my
perfect in every way listeners a chance
to get an appreciation for the history
this is a history podcast after all all
throughout I have encouraged all of you
who maybe aren't into tea yet if your
interest has been piqued from this
history of tea overview the resources
out there to guide you and accompany you
on your own little tea journey are
plentiful
authoritative well I haven't listened to
him in about ten months but as the good
professor in Casey he always used to say
maybe he still does I hope you enjoyed
that this is Laszlo Montgomery signing
off as you notice not from Claremont
California anymore yeah I sold that
place but still down here in SoCal and
shaky town and the big orange for
everyone attracted to the CHP by this
history of tea series with all the
skittles I laid down these past 10
episodes I hope you'll stay and look
around there's almost a hundred hours
worth of Chinese history here surely
something for everyone
on behalf of the most excellent
listenership a history podcast could
hope for you are cordially invited and
most welcome to join our worldwide CHP
community and come groove on some china
history podcasts if you've been
listening to the recent episodes you'll
know that the china history podcasts
history of tea has been brought to you
in part by the spirit of tea a book in
global traveling museum by tea lover and
photographer Matthew London Matthew just
got back from two months in China and
Taiwan working on his project the spirit
of tea is a fresh look into the ancient
yet vibrant world of Chinese tea culture
through Matthew's stunning photographs
from an epic four year journey
throughout mainland China Taiwan Hong
Kong and Macau based on his philosophy
of the five elements of tea along with
masterpiece Chinese paintings and poetry
the spirit of tea takes you deep into
the heart of the birthplace of tea and
offers profound insight into the essence
and beauty of Chinese tea wisdom for
this final tenth episode he will be
giving away three copies of his book the
spirit of tea once it's released head on
over to www.hsn.com on T featuring his
project which was seen by hundreds of
millions of people in China one last
thing before I go there's a new book out
on University of Hawaii press by
McMaster University professor of
religious studies James a Ben it's
entitled tea and China a religious and
cultural history I'll have a link to
that on my page that is all I have for
you for this episode and about the
history of tea in China I'm going to
post a little cheat sheet I put together
listing all the online tea stores I can
find as well as links to all the sources
I mentioned in the series let me close
and saying that if this series inspired
you to go learn more about tea the
Internet abounds with experts blogs
videos and resources that can teach you
everything there is to know about
everything there is to know about tea
and if you want to sample all the tea's
I've mentioned you're in luck because as
long as it's in stock you can get it
online delivered fresh to your door let
me close with a tea poem that sort of
says it all for me
now stir the fire and close the shutters
fast let fall the curtains wheel the
sofa round and while the bubbling and
loud hissing earned throws up a steamy
column and the cups that shared but not
inebriated wait on each so let us
welcome a peaceful evening in and I wish
all of you my longtime listeners and
those of you who were attracted to the
CHP by this big juicy topic that you all
get to enjoy that peace and serenity
from a quiet evening in enjoying a nice
cup of junk to Tuan Hsu Ming cha-cha tea
or whatever you call it in your language
take care everyone and it's back to the
same old tried-and-true routine next
time this is Lazlo Montgomery signing
off this time from Gainesville in the
great state of Georgia the Peach State
and I'm hoping you'll maybe consider
joining me next time for another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast